Add security considerations (close #149) (#151)
ietf-wg-asdf/SDF: sdf.md

Security Considerations {#seccons}
=======================

Some wider security considerations applicable to Things are discussed
in {{-seccons}}.
{{Section 5 of -cddl}} gives an overview over security considerations
that arise when formal description techniques are used to govern
interoperability; analogs of these security considerations can apply
to SDF.

The security considerations of underlying building blocks such as
those detailed in {{Section 10 of -utf8}} apply.

> SDF uses JSON as a representation language; {{-json}} for a number of

Reviewer: Some punctation missing here? Or 
> For a number of cases {{-json}} indicates ...

Author: The sequence I used is valid but may indeed be surprising, so I changed this along the lines you suggested.

Reviewer 2: ... representation language. For a number of cases, {{-json}} indicates that ...

cases indicates that implementation behavior for certain constructs
allowed by the JSON grammar is unpredictable.
Implementations need to be robust against invalid or unpredictable
cases on input, preferably by rejecting input that is invalid or
that would lead to unpredictable behavior, and need to avoid generating
these cases on output.

Implementations of model languages may also exhibit
performance-related availability issues when the attacker can control
the input, see {{Section 4.1 of -jsonpath}} for a brief discussion.

SDF may be used in two processes that are often security relevant:
*validation* of data that is intended to be described by SDF models, and
*augmentation* of these data with information obtained from the SDF
models that apply.

Implementations need to ascertain the provenance and applicability of

> the SDF models they employ operationally in these ways.

Reviewer: Where "these ways" refers to would be more clear without the paragraph break above

Author: I think the paragraph break is useful, so I changed "these ways" into " such security relevant ways".

Implementations that make use of the composition mechanisms defined in this
document need to do this for each of the components they combine
into the SDF models they employ.
Essentially, this process needs to undergo the same care and scrutiny
as any other introduction of source code into a build environment; the
possibility of supply-chain attacks on the modules imported needs to
be considered.

Specifically, implementations that rely on model-based input
validation for enforcing certain properties of the data structure
ingested (which, if not validated, could lead to malfunctions such as
crashes and remote code execution) need to be particularly careful

> about the data models they apply, including their provenance and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
about the data models they apply. This includes their provenance and
```

Suggesting breaking long sentence into two for readability

Author: I broke it up in a different place.

potential changes of these properties that upgrades to the referenced
modules may (inadvertently or as part of an attack) cause.
More generally speaking, implementations should strive to be robust
against expected and unexpected limitations of the model-based input
validation mechanisms and their implementations.

> Similarly, implementations that rely on model-based augmentation may

Reviewer: Perhaps useful to add some words to explain what we mean why "model-based augmentation"?

Author: The fourth paragraph was intended to do that.  I added "model-based" twice.

Security Considerations {#seccons}
=======================

Some wider security considerations applicable to Things are discussed
in {{-seccons}}.
{{Section 5 of -cddl}} gives an overview over security considerations
that arise when formal description techniques are used to govern
interoperability; analogs of these security considerations can apply
to SDF.

The security considerations of underlying building blocks such as
those detailed in {{Section 10 of -utf8}} apply.
SDF uses JSON as a representation language; for a number of
cases {{-json}} indicates that implementation behavior for certain constructs
allowed by the JSON grammar is unpredictable.
Implementations need to be robust against invalid or unpredictable
cases on input, preferably by rejecting input that is invalid or
that would lead to unpredictable behavior, and need to avoid generating

> these cases on output.

Reviewer 3: What should implementations do when they see invalid or unpredictable input?  Should the entire message be dropped (do we have a clear error indication in all mappings?  Do we have mappings for errors?), or just the construct which was invalid, assuming that the format allows for that?
It also might be useful to distinguish code that runs at development time from code that might be generated.

Author: I think this is very hard to answer in general.
There are several instances in the text that discuss validity, but we don't have a complete validity model.
What do you do when you get an ABNF spec that is invalid?
I'll merge this PR without having fully addressed your comment; if you think we need to develop a validity model first before going ahead with this document, please add another issue.
